                          XFITSview
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Copyright (C) 1996
  Associated Universities, Inc. Washington DC, USA.
  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
  GNU General Public License for more details.

  Correspondence concerning XFITSview should be addressed as follows:
         Internet email: bcotton@nrao.edu.
         Postal address: William Cotton
                         National Radio Astronomy Observatory
                         520 Edgemont Road
                         Charlottesville, VA 22903-2475 USA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------*/

   XFITSview is a viewer for FITS format images for unix/X-Windows
systems.  XFITSview will display images allowing zooming, scrolling,
modifying the brightness, contrast and color and allow determination
of celestial positions in the image.  Positions and brightnesses of
selected pixels may be logged to a text file.  Specified positions in
the image may be marked.  Images may be compared by "blinking" them
and 3 dimensional images may be viewed in the form of a movie.  The
program contains extensive online documentation.  Blanked pixels and
all defined FITS image data types are supported.  Normal or gzip
compressed files may be used.

 Installation
 ------------
   
    Installation of XFITSview requires an ansi c compiler and the
Motif package of software for the X-Windows system (not included in
this distribution).  After expanding the tar archive change to
directory XFITSview.  The make file "Makefile" may need to be modified
to give the particulars of your system.  The name of the c compiler
and the locations of the X-Windows and Motif include and library
directories must be supplied.  In addition, the variable BYTSORD gives
the byte order of the machines for which you are building the
executable.  A value of "big" is appropriate for "big endian"
machines, e.g. (Sun, IBM RS/6000, SGI, HP).  A value of "little" is
appropriate for "little endian" byte ordering (Linux, Dec Alpha).

   After making any necessary modifications to the Makefile type make
(or gmake) to build the executable.  When this procedure completes,
copy the executable (XFITSview) to the directory in which it is to be
installed. The XFITSview directory structure may be removed after
successfully building and installing XFITSview.  XFITSview contains
online documentation; a text version of this documentation is in the
file XFITSview.hlp.

Trouble shooting notes:
1) If XFITSview appears to build and run except that the displayed
image appears to be random noise, check that BYTEORD in the make file
is set correctly.  To rebuild, first clear the old installation by
% make clobber
and then type "make" to rebuild.

     Questions and comments should be directed to Bill Cotton
at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory (bcotton@nrao.edu).

Usage
-----

   XFITSview may be started with the name of a FITS format file as a
command line argument.  Either the initial or subsequent files may be
selected using the "Open" item in the "File" menu.  Consult the "Help
Me" item in the "Help" menu for further details.  Each menu column has
a separate help item.
